CI2
The study must contain the keywords cited in the search string section, in its abstract and/or title and/or keywords.
CI3
The study must be primarily related to the topics of hard-to-understand code, understandability, or readability (readability or legibility).
CI4
Empirical studies, such as: controlled experiment, experiment and survey. Separating surveys from experiments and more rigorous studies.
CI5
Studies that compare alternative programming constructs, coding expressions, coding styles, or ways to assess readability in this context.
CI6
Studies that present low level programming activities / limited scope programming activities. Not design, but implementation. As a rule of thumb, we're talking about intra-method code reading.
CI7
The study focuses on source code but not comments.


How do we differentiate a controlled experiment from a semi-controlled experiment?









How to specify that smells do not make sense for us? Hard to identify in a reliable/consistent manner? Why is it the case?



CI7 is useless. Maybe it can be re-phrased to cover the case of smells. Maybe there are others.

CI5, CI6. This is a paper that had the potential to be in the study, but it states things like "Improve variable name" or "Simplify if condition" without being a bit more concrete. In this sense, these comments look a lot like lower-level bad code smells. 
(Code Readability Testing paper)

Smells are a lot like that. They state that the method is long, but this is not sufficient for a developer to improve the code. More concrete information is required. Why is long identifier name relevant whereas long method seems to be a bit out of scope? For God Class, we can always argue that it is a design issue. Maybe long method is not "localized"? Or maybe a long method is not necessarily hard to read? If fits clearly within the broader activity of program comprehension but less so within code reading?

However, at the same, time, we have work that shows that "longer, more descriptive" identifier names are better than "shorter, less descriptive" ones. 

Same person, two approaches?